enh(epp): network-cisco-standard-snmp (#2404)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/network-cisco-standard-snmp.md

---
id: network-cisco-standard-snmp
title: Cisco Standard SNMP
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Pack assets

### Templates

The Monitoring Connector **Cisco Standard** brings a host template:

> * **Net-Cisco-Standard-SNMP**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Net-Cisco-Standard-SNMP-custom**
```

The connector brings the following service templates (sorted by the host template they are attached to):

<Tabs groupId="sync">

> <TabItem value="Net-Cisco-Standard-SNMP" label="Net-Cisco-Standard-SNMP">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="Net-Cisco-Standard-SNMP-custom" label="Net-Cisco-Standard-SNMP-custom">
```

| Service Alias | Service Template                    | Service Description                                                                                           |
|:--------------|:------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Cpu           | Net-Cisco-Standard-Cpu-SNMP         | Check the rate of utilization of CPU for the machine. This check can give the average utilization rate of CPU |
| Environment   | Net-Cisco-Standard-Environment-SNMP | Check hardware environment                                                                                    |
| Memory        | Net-Cisco-Standard-Memory-SNMP      | Check machine memory usage                                                                                    |

> > The services listed above are created automatically when the **Net-Cisco-Standard-SNMP** host template is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The services listed above are created automatically when the **Net-Cisco-Standard-SNMP-custom** host template is used.
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Not attached to a host template" label="Not attached to a host template">

| Service Alias | Service Template                      | Service Description                           | Discovery  |
|:--------------|:--------------------------------------|:----------------------------------------------|:-----------|
| Aaa-Servers   | Net-Cisco-Standard-Aaa-Servers-SNMP   | Check AAA servers                             | X          |
| Anycast       | Net-Cisco-Standard-Anycast-SNMP       | Check traffic types                           |            |

> | Arp           | Net-Cisco-Standard-Arp-SNMP           | Check arp table                               |            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Arp           | Net-Cisco-Standard-Arp-SNMP           | Check ARP table                               |            |
```

| Bgp           | Net-Cisco-Standard-Bgp-SNMP           | Check BGP                                     |            |
| Configuration | Net-Cisco-Standard-Configuration-SNMP | Check Cisco changed and saved configurations  |            |
| Hsrp          | Net-Cisco-Standard-Hsrp-SNMP          | Check Cisco HSRP status                       |            |
| Interfaces    | Net-Cisco-Standard-Interfaces-SNMP    | Check interfaces                              | X          |
| Ipsla         | Net-Cisco-Standard-Ipsla-SNMP         | Check RTT Controls                            |            |
| Memory-Flash  | Net-Cisco-Standard-Memory-Flash-SNMP  | Check memory flash usages                     |            |
| Qos-Usage     | Net-Cisco-Standard-Qos-Usage-SNMP     | Check QoS usage                               |            |
| Spanning-Tree | Net-Cisco-Standard-SpanningTree-SNMP  | Check Spanning Tree state on interfaces       |            |
| Stack         | Net-Cisco-Standard-Stack-SNMP         | Check Cisco stack state                       |            |
| Voice-Call    | Net-Cisco-Standard-Voice-Call-SNMP    | Check call traffic statistics                 |            |

> > The services listed above are not created automatically when a host template is applied. To use them, [create a service manually](/docs/monitoring/basic-objects/services), then appy the service template you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The services listed above are not created automatically when a host template is applied. To use them, [create a service manually](/docs/monitoring/basic-objects/services), then apply the service template you want.
```

| *remote_addr~remote_port*#bgp.peer.prefixes.accepted.count |       |
| *remote_addr~remote_port*#bgp.peer.prefixes.denied.count   |       |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Configuration" label="Configuration">

| Metric name          | Unit  |
|:---------------------|:------|
| running_last_changed | s     |
| running_last_saved   | s     |
| startup_last_changed | s     |

> To obtain this new metric format, include **--use-new-perfdata** in the **EXTRAOPTIONS** service macro.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Cpu" label="Cpu">

| Metric name                                  | Unit  |
|:---------------------------------------------|:------|
| cpu.utilization.5s.percentage                | %     |
| cpu.utilization.1m.percentage                | %     |
| cpu.utilization.5m.percentage                | %     |
| *cpu_num*#core.cpu.utilization.5s.percentage | %     |
| *cpu_num*#core.cpu.utilization.1m.percentage | %     |
| *cpu_num*#core.cpu.utilization.5m.percentage | %     |

> To obtain this new metric format, include **--use-new-perfdata** in the **EXTRAOPTIONS** service macro.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Environment" label="Environment">

> Coming soon

Reviewer: coming soon

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Hsrp" label="Hsrp">

| Metric name | Unit  |
|:------------|:------|
| hsrp status |       |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Interfaces" label="Interfaces">

| Metric name                                                | Unit  |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------|:------|
| status                                                     |       |
| *interface_name*#interface.traffic.in.bitspersecond        |  b/s  |
| *interface_name*#interface.traffic.in.limit.bitspersecond  |  b/s  |
| *interface_name*#interface.traffic.out.bitspersecond       |  b/s  |
| *interface_name*#interface.traffic.out.limit.bitspersecond |  b/s  |
| *interface_name*#interface.packets.in.error.percentage     |  %    |
| *interface_name*#interface.packets.in.discard.percentage   |  %    |
| *interface_name*#interface.packets.out.error.percentage    |  %    |
| *interface_name*#interface.packets.out.discard.percentage  |  %    |
| *interface_name*#interface.packets.in.crc.count            |       |
| *interface_name*#interface.packets.in.fcserror.count       |       |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Ipsla" label="Ipsla">

> Coming soon

Reviewer: coming soon

| *partition_name*#memory.flash.usage.bytes      | B     |
| *partition_name*#memory.flash.free.bytes       | B     |
| *partition_name*#memory.flash.usage.percentage | %     |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Qos-Usage" label="Qos-Usage">

| Metric name                                                                 | Unit  |
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------|
| qos.traffic.bitspersecond                                                   | b/s   |
| qos.drop.bitspersecond                                                      | b/s   |
| *interface_name:classmap_name*#qos.interface.classmap.traffic.bitspersecond |       |
| *interface_name:classmap_name*#qos.interface.classmap.drop.bitspersecond    | b/s   |
| *classmap_name*#qos.classmap.traffic.bitspersecond                          | b/s   |
| *classmap_name*#qos.classmap.drop.bitspersecond                             | b/s   |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Spanning-Tree" label="Spanning-Tree">

| Metric name          | Unit  |
|:---------------------|:------|
| spanning tree status |       |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Stack" label="Stack">

> Coming soon

Reviewer: coming soon

```

> In the example above, 'public' is your snmp community. You do now want to use it in production ;)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example above, 'public' is your snmp community. Do not use it in production.
```
